Add cf1702e (#2935)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/cf-1702E.mdx

---
id: cf-1702E
source: CF
title: Split Into Two Sets
author: Aadit Ambadkar
---

[Official Editorial (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/104763)

## Explanation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n)$

First observe that if any number is present on more than 2 dominoes or if a dominoe has the same number repeated twice, then 
it is impossible to create the 2 sets.

We can turn this problem into

> a graph problem by drawing edges between dominoes that share numbers. Specifically, let dominoe $i$ have the two numbers 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a graph problem by drawing edges between dominoes that share numbers. Specifically, let domino $i$ have the two numbers 
```

Since each number appears only once in each set, this graph is bipartite.

This leads us to the following assertion: It is possible to construct the two sets
[if and only if](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/Iff) the graph constructed as above is bipartite. We proved
the only if clause above, all that remains is to prove the if clause.

Suppose the graph is bipartite. Divide the graph into two sets according to the bipartite split of the graph. We wish to prove
that no numbers are repeated twice in either of these sets. However, since an edge exists between any two dominoes which share
a number, it is impossible for two dominoes which share a number to be in the same set (if it were possible, we would have a
cycle of length 1, which is odd, contradicting the fact that the graph is bipartite). So, given a bipartite split of the graph,
we can easliy construct our 2 desired sets.

The implementation of this is relatively straight forward; Simply check if the graph is bipartite or not, and output accordingly.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

> bool dfs(int u, int g, vector<int>& vis, vector<vector<int>>& adj) {

Reviewer: add `const`

Author: const to which?

Reviewer: the vectors

Author: but they are modified...

    // If the node is already visited with and was marked in the same color

> 	if (vis[u] == g) return true;

Reviewer: 1. braces
2. indentation sus

    
    // If the node is already visited with and was marked in the other color
	if (vis[u] == 1 - g) return false;
    
    vis[u] = g; 
	for (auto i : adj[u]) {
        // If there is a problem when dfsing to any of the other nodes we 
        // need to return false
		if (!dfs(i, 1 - g, vis, adj)) return false; 
	}
    // No problems
	return true;
}

void solve() {

> 	int n; cin >> n;

Reviewer: statements on sep lines

	vector<pair<int, int>> dm(n);
    
	for (auto& i : dm) cin >> i.first >> i.second;
		
    for (auto i : dm) {
        // Check if a dominoe has the same number twice
		if (i.first == i.second) {
			cout << "NO\n";
			return;
		}
	}

    // Check if a number exists in 3 or more dominoes
    map<int, vector<int>> ma;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		ma[dm[i].first].push_back(i);
		ma[dm[i].second].push_back(i);
		if (ma[dm[i].first].size() > 2 || ma[dm[i].second].size() > 2) {
			cout << "NO\n";
			return;
		}
	}

    // initialize variables for DFS
	vector<int> vis(n, -1);
	vector<vector<int>> adj(n);
	for (auto p : ma) {
		auto v = p.second;
		if (v.size()==2) {
			adj[v[0]].push_back(v[1]);
			adj[v[1]].push_back(v[0]);
		}
	}

    // Check if the graph is bipartite

    // Since the graph is not guaranteed to be connected
    // we need to iterate over every value and make sure
    // every value is visited
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		if (vis[i]==-1) {
			if (!dfs(i, 0, vis, adj)) {
				cout << "NO\n";
				return;
			}
		}
	}
	cout << "YES\n";
}

int main() {

> 	int t; cin >> t; while (t--) solve();

Reviewer: dear god please no

Author: L ok i'll expand

---
id: cf-1702E
source: CF
title: Split Into Two Sets
author: Aadit Ambadkar
---

[Official Editorial (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/104763)

## Explanation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n)$

> First observe that if any number is present on more than 2 dominoes or if a domino has the same number repeated twice, then 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First observe that if any number is present on more than 2 dominoes or if a domino has the same number repeated twice, as then 
```

> First observe that if any number is present on more than 2 dominoes or if a domino has the same number repeated twice, then 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First observe that if any number is present on more than 2 dominoes or if a domino has the same number repeated twice, as then,
```

Since each number appears only once in each set, this graph is bipartite.

This leads us to the following assertion: It is possible to construct the two sets
[if and only if](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/Iff) the graph constructed as above is bipartite. We proved
the only if clause above, all that remains is to prove the if clause.

Suppose the graph is bipartite. Divide the graph into two sets according to the bipartite split of the graph. We wish to prove
that no numbers are repeated twice in either of these sets. However, since an edge exists between any two dominoes which share
a number, it is impossible for two dominoes which share a number to be in the same set (if it were possible, we would have a
cycle of length 1, which is odd, contradicting the fact that the graph is bipartite). So, given a bipartite split of the graph,
we can easliy construct our 2 desired sets.

The implementation of this is relatively straight forward; Simply check if the graph is bipartite or not, and output accordingly.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

> bool dfs(int u, int g, vector<int>& vis, vector<vector<int>>& adj) {

Reviewer 3: what is `g` supposed to represent? wouldnt something like `col` be more widely known and accepted

Author: `g` means group, I thought that was relatively clear. I'll update it to color.

Author: done

	// If the node is already visited with and was marked in the same color
	if (vis[u] == g) {
		return true;
	}
    
	// If the node is already visited with and was marked in the other color
	if (vis[u] == 1 - g) {
		return false;
	}
    
	vis[u] = g; 

> 	for (int i : adj[u]) {

Reviewer 3: people normally use 'v' with 'u', so maybe do that instead

Author: done

>         	// need to return false

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
bruh

		if (!dfs(i, 1 - g, vis, adj)) return false; 
	}
	return true;
}

void solve() {
	int n; 
	cin >> n;
	vector<pair<int, int>> dm(n);
    
	for (pair<int, int>& i : dm) {
		cin >> i.first >> i.second;
	}
		
	for (pair<int, int> i : dm) {

>         	// Check if a dominoe has the same number twice

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        	// Check if a number on the domino is repeated
```

		if (i.first == i.second) {
			cout << "NO\n";
			return;
		}
	}

> 	map<int, vector<int>> ma;

Reviewer 3: maybe use better variable names? what is `ma` and `dm` supposed to represent and what does the name mean? It might not be obvious.

Author: done

---
id: cf-1702E
source: CF
title: Split Into Two Sets
author: Aadit Ambadkar
---

[Official Editorial (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/104763)

## Explanation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n)$

First observe that if any number is present on more than 2 dominoes or if a dominoe has the same number repeated twice, then 

> it is impossible to create the 2 sets.

Reviewer: why?

Author: that's kind of obvious if you read the problem and the sample input

Reviewer: "left as an exercise to the reader" moment

Author: honestly imma put that there

We can turn this problem into

> a graph problem by drawing edges between dominoes that share numbers. Specifically, let domino $i$ have the two numbers 

Reviewer: why would we think of this as a graph problem?
what cues are there?

Author: tbh none thats the trick of this problem. the only motivation is that there are 2 sets so we might try bipartite splits, and for that we need a graph.

Reviewer: bruhment

	if (vis[u] == 1 - g) {
		return false;
	}
    
	vis[u] = g; 
	for (auto i : adj[u]) {
        	// If there is a problem when dfsing to any of the other nodes we 
        	// need to return false
		if (!dfs(i, 1 - g, vis, adj)) return false; 
	}
	// No problems
	return true;
}

void solve() {
	int n; 
	cin >> n;
	vector<pair<int, int>> dm(n);
    
	for (auto& i : dm) {
		cin >> i.first >> i.second;
	}
		
	for (auto i : dm) {
        	// Check if a dominoe has the same number twice
		if (i.first == i.second) {
			cout << "NO\n";
			return;
		}
	}

	// Check if a number exists in 3 or more dominoes
	map<int, vector<int>> ma;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		ma[dm[i].first].push_back(i);
		ma[dm[i].second].push_back(i);
		if (ma[dm[i].first].size() > 2 || ma[dm[i].second].size() > 2) {
			cout << "NO\n";
			return;
		}
	}

	// initialize variables for DFS
	vector<int> vis(n, -1);
	vector<vector<int>> adj(n);
	for (auto p : ma) {
		auto v = p.second;
		if (v.size()==2) {
			adj[v[0]].push_back(v[1]);
			adj[v[1]].push_back(v[0]);
		}
	}

	// Check if the graph is bipartite

	// Since the graph is not guaranteed to be connected
	// we need to iterate over every value and make sure

> 	// every value is visited

Reviewer: use a multiline

Author: ok

using namespace std;

bool dfs(int u, int g, vector<int>& vis, vector<vector<int>>& adj) {
	// If the node is already visited with and was marked in the same color
	if (vis[u] == g) {
		return true;
	}
    
	// If the node is already visited with and was marked in the other color
	if (vis[u] == 1 - g) {
		return false;
	}
    
	vis[u] = g; 
	for (auto i : adj[u]) {
        	// If there is a problem when dfsing to any of the other nodes we 
        	// need to return false
		if (!dfs(i, 1 - g, vis, adj)) return false; 
	}
	// No problems
	return true;
}

void solve() {
	int n; 
	cin >> n;
	vector<pair<int, int>> dm(n);
    
	for (auto& i : dm) {
		cin >> i.first >> i.second;
	}
		
	for (auto i : dm) {
        	// Check if a dominoe has the same number twice
		if (i.first == i.second) {
			cout << "NO\n";
			return;
		}
	}

	// Check if a number exists in 3 or more dominoes
	map<int, vector<int>> ma;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		ma[dm[i].first].push_back(i);
		ma[dm[i].second].push_back(i);
		if (ma[dm[i].first].size() > 2 || ma[dm[i].second].size() > 2) {
			cout << "NO\n";
			return;
		}
	}

	// initialize variables for DFS
	vector<int> vis(n, -1);
	vector<vector<int>> adj(n);

> 	for (auto p : ma) {

Reviewer: i'm begging you please don't use `auto`

Author: #no

		auto v = p.second;
		if (v.size()==2) {
			adj[v[0]].push_back(v[1]);
			adj[v[1]].push_back(v[0]);
		}
	}
	
	/**
	 * Check if the graph is bipartite:
	 * Since the graph is not guaranteed to be connected
	 * we need to iterate over every value and make sure
	 * every value is visited

> 	**/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	/*
	 * Check if the graph is bipartite:
	 * Since the graph is not guaranteed to be connected
	 * we need to iterate over every value and make sure
	 * every value is visited
	 */

> 	/**
> 	 * Check if the graph is bipartite:
> 	 * Since the graph is not guaranteed to be connected
> 	 * we need to iterate over every value and make sure
> 	 * every value is visited
> 	**/

Author: ```suggestion
	/*
	 * Check if the graph is bipartite:
	 * Since the graph is not guaranteed to be connected
	 * we need to iterate over every value and make sure
	 * every value is visited
	*/
```

	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {

> 		if (vis[i]==-1) {

Reviewer: spaces

Author: done 🗡️

			if (!dfs(i, 0, vis, adj)) {

> 				cout << "NO\n";
> 				return;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				cout << "NO" << endl;
				return;
```

			}
		}
	}

> 	cout << "YES\n";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	cout << "YES" << endl;
```

Author: Ah this one is a hard no from me, `"\n"` is faster than `endl` since `endl` flushes output.

Reviewer: does it still give AC? if so it doesn't matter

}

int main() {
	int t; 
	cin >> t; 
	while (t--) {
		solve();

> 	}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	int test_num;
	cin >> test_num;
	for (int t = 0; t < test_num; t++) {
		solve();
	}

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58674441/184061898-4afced0f-ff46-4ef5-b029-5ac041825eef.png)

---
id: cf-1702E
source: CF
title: Split Into Two Sets
author: Aadit Ambadkar
---

[Official Editorial (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/104763)

## Explanation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n)$

> First observe that if any number is present on more than 2 dominoes or if a dominoe has the same number repeated twice, then 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First observe that if any number is present on more than 2 dominoes or if a domino has the same number repeated twice, then 
```

the only if clause above, all that remains is to prove the if clause.

Suppose the graph is bipartite. Divide the graph into two sets according to the bipartite split of the graph. We wish to prove
that no numbers are repeated twice in either of these sets. However, since an edge exists between any two dominoes which share
a number, it is impossible for two dominoes which share a number to be in the same set (if it were possible, we would have a
cycle of length 1, which is odd, contradicting the fact that the graph is bipartite). So, given a bipartite split of the graph,
we can easliy construct our 2 desired sets.

The implementation of this is relatively straight forward; Simply check if the graph is bipartite or not, and output accordingly.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

bool dfs(int u, int g, vector<int>& vis, vector<vector<int>>& adj) {
	// If the node is already visited with and was marked in the same color
	if (vis[u] == g) {
		return true;
	}
    
	// If the node is already visited with and was marked in the other color
	if (vis[u] == 1 - g) {
		return false;
	}
    
	vis[u] = g; 
	for (auto i : adj[u]) {

>         	// If there is a problem when dfsing to any of the other nodes we 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        	// If there is a problem when dfsing to any of the other nodes we 
```
what problem u talking about m8

        	// need to return false
		if (!dfs(i, 1 - g, vis, adj)) return false; 
	}

> 	// No problems

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

	return true;
}

void solve() {
	int n; 
	cin >> n;
	vector<pair<int, int>> dm(n);
    
	for (auto& i : dm) {
		cin >> i.first >> i.second;
	}
		
	for (auto i : dm) {
        	// Check if a dominoe has the same number twice
		if (i.first == i.second) {
			cout << "NO\n";
			return;
		}
	}

> 	// Check if a number exists in 3 or more dominoes

Reviewer 3: move this down to that if statement

	map<int, vector<int>> ma;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		ma[dm[i].first].push_back(i);
		ma[dm[i].second].push_back(i);
		if (ma[dm[i].first].size() > 2 || ma[dm[i].second].size() > 2) {
			cout << "NO\n";
			return;
		}
	}

	// initialize variables for DFS
	vector<int> vis(n, -1);
	vector<vector<int>> adj(n);
	for (auto p : ma) {

> 		auto v = p.second;

Reviewer 3: im also begging you please stop using auto

Author: no, auto is fine.

Author: i removed it though.

> 		if (v.size()==2) {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		if (v.size() == 2) {
```

			adj[v[0]].push_back(v[1]);
			adj[v[1]].push_back(v[0]);
		}
	}
	
	/*
	 * Check if the graph is bipartite:
	 * Since the graph is not guaranteed to be connected
	 * we need to iterate over every value and make sure

> 	 * every value is visited

Reviewer 3: isnt this comment kind of self explanatory?

Author: No like there are 2 parts, first is that we check if the graph is bipartite, and second we make sure that every node is visited, since callling dfs once might not work.

Reviewer 3: its common sense that to check all nodes, we need to iterate through all nodes and make sure they're visited

Author: okay ig

	*/
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		if (vis[i] == -1) {

> 			if (!dfs(i, 0, vis, adj)) {

Reviewer 3: im suggesting move vis and adj to global so you dont have to pass in all this crap as arguments

Author: no then I have to reset every testcase and I don't wanna deal with that crap.

Reviewer 3: ok fair enough lol

				cout << "NO" << endl;
				return;
			}
		}
	}
	cout << "YES" << endl;
}

int main() {
	int t; 
	cin >> t; 

> 	for (; t > 0; t--) {

Reviewer 3: this is cursed
```suggestion
	while (t--) {
```

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(n)$

First observe that if any number is present on more than 2 dominoes or if a dominoe has the same number repeated twice, then 

> it is impossible to create the 2 sets. _The proof of this is left as an exercise to the reader._

Reviewer: ...aadit i meant that as
"proofs left as exercise to the reader are awful and should never be used"

Author: if you read the problem is incredibly obvious why. Your asking me to essentially prove that you cannot fit 3 items in 2 groups, with each item going into a different group. Please consider that.

Author: 😮‍💨 fine

int main() {
	int t; 
	cin >> t; 

> 	for (; t > 0; t--) {

Reviewer: how does this make it better

Author: more clear as to what is going on.
